Blogpost: Trying your Github Actions locally (#1477)
simplabs/simplabs.github.io: _posts/2021-03-08-trying-your-github-actions-locally.md

---

> title: 'Trying your Github Actions locally'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Trying your GitHub Actions locally'
```

author: 'Samanta de Barros'
github: sdebarros
twitter: sami_dbc
topic: github
bio: 'Senior Frontend Engineer'

> description: 'Samanta de Barros on how to try locally your Github Actions'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'Samanta de Barros on how to try locally your GitHub Actions'
```

og:
  image: /assets/images/posts/2021-03-08-trying-github-actions-locally/og-image.png
---

> If, like me, configuring [Github Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, like me, configuring [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) is
```

not your thing and you find yourself wanting to try something before actually

> pushing it to Github (and having to see the effects on real-life), follow this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pushing it to GitHub (and having to see the effects on real-life), follow this
```

> step by step of how to run your Github Actions on your own computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
step by step of how to run your GitHub Actions on your own computer.
```

<!--break-->

> ![Trying your Github Actions locally illustration](/assets/images/posts/2021-03-08-trying-github-actions-locally/illustration.svg#full)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Trying your GitHub Actions locally illustration](/assets/images/posts/2021-03-08-trying-github-actions-locally/illustration.svg#full)
```

> Github Actions is an API from Github that allows you to automate certain tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Github Actions is a service from Github that allows you to automate certain tasks
```

API sounds a bit strange to me in this context?

Author: Yes, that makes more sense.

> Github Actions is an API from Github that allows you to automate certain tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub Actions is an API from GitHub that allows you to automate certain tasks
```

of your development cycle, right from your repository. It allows you to define a
series of commands to be run on specified events (pull requests created, commits
pushed to a branch, etc), and takes care of executing those commands and
providing you feedback. You can for instance, run tests when code is pushed to a

> branch, or do a deployment when code is merged to master.

Reviewer 2: I would remove the event examples from the parens as you're also giving similar examples in the sentence directly after.

Author: Done

You may run into a case where having to change your action, push it and wait for

> Github to run it, to see if it works, it's not the most convenient. In my case,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Github to run it, to see if it works, is not the most convenient. In my case,
```

?

Reviewer 2: I'd also go for something with less commas like:
> You may run into the situation where you have to change your action and then have to push and wait for GitHub to run the action to see if your changes work as intended.

Author: I went with a sentence closer to @nickschot's suggestion. Still added commas though, I think it's simpler than saying `and then... and...` etc. Let me know what you think.

I wanted to test an action that is in charge of releasing
[ember-simple-auth](https://github.com/simplabs/ember-simple-auth), to see if
the change I had made worked as I intended. I wanted to avoid having to make a
release for this and see it fail. After some digging, I couldn't find a way to

> do a dry run of the action from Github, but I found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
do a dry run of the action from GitHub, but I found
```

> [act](https://github.com/nektos/act), a library that lets you run your Github

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[act](https://github.com/nektos/act), a library that lets you run your GitHub
```

Actions locally.

The library requires Docker, where it builds the images defined in your actions
and later runs them. So you'll have to install that first. After Docker and
[act]() are installed, you can start trying out your actions! There are two ways
to achieve that: telling `act` to trigger an event (see
[list of events](https://docs.github.com/en/developers/webhooks-and-events/webhook-events-and-payloads))
or to run a job by passing its name.

To trigger an event, from your project folder, you can run `act event_name`. The
default event is `push` (no need to pass it as an argument). To run a specific
job, you can do `act -j job_name`.

You can also list all the available actions in your project folder by running

> `act -l`, or fun `act event_name -l` to see all the actions run for a specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`act -l`, or run `act event_name -l` to see all the actions run for a specific
```

event.

As an example, our release workflow looks something like this:

```jsx
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - '*'

jobs:
  release:
    name: Release
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v1
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 12.x
          registry-url: 'https://registry.npmjs.org'

      - name: copy readme to package folder
        run: cp README.md packages/ember-simple-auth
      - name: publish to npm
        run: cd packages/ember-simple-auth && npm publish
        env:
          NODE_AUTH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.NPM_TOKEN }}

> ```

Reviewer: I think it might be good to add a one sentence summary of this – _"on every push to a tag, we release whatever is in that tag to npm"_ or so…

Author: Added below.

> To try it out, we can either do `act push` or `act -j release` which uses the

Reviewer: Would `act push` not check that we're pushing a tag here?

Author: It doesn't. I can remove that example and just leave `act -j release` though, if it's more clear.

Reviewer: Maybe that would be better in that case, yes – I was a bit confused reading this as the config says the job runs for pushes on tags only but then this is a regular push so it's unclear why this would trigger the job.

Author: Done.
